Today is November the 2nd, and I am interviewing
Dr. Linda Parrish, who was a former student in the
College of Education, is now teaching in the
Department of Industrial and Vocational. Well,
you probably want to get that down. Okay, give me
more. I have a split appointment. All right. I'm
67% an educational psychologist. Oh, okay. And
33%. in industrial, vocational, and technical
education. Okay. Very good. And if you've already
looked at the questions, they don't have to be in
any particular order. I guess change is the one
thing that I'm asking everybody about because you
would have perceived it from a different, you
know, deal when you were a student. And then now as
you teach and you see a lot of the changes, I guess
that will give me a different type of Well, most of
the things I was focusing on is just as a professor,
because this is my ninth year here. I remember when
I was hired as a professor that one of the things one
of my professors said to me was, now, Linda, the
hardest thing you're going to have to get used to is
to act like a professor instead of a graduate
student here. And I said to him, That's not any
trouble at all. I've always acted like a
professor, even as a student here. And he laughed
and he says, you know, as a matter of fact, I think
you have. Did you start under Dean Hubert? Yes.
Hubert hired me. Sure, sure. Okay, good. Well, go
ahead and tell me something about the ways that you
have seen the changes and what you have perceived
as being, what has impacted, what kind of things
impacted change since you left? Well, number one
and two go together. It felt like when I was looking
at number one, the changes that I would tell you
about are just so intricately woven with the
people who have made the change, so I'll have to
answer those together. A major change in the
College of Education has been the arrival of Dean
Corrigan. is a nationally visible figure and I can
remember having a trip to El Paso planned the day
that he was coming to interview and I called and
rescheduled my trip because it was so important
for me to meet Dean Corrigan and
there were three wonderful candidates that all
came in that I was teaching as off-campus course in
El Paso, and I didn't reschedule for anyone else,
just for Karga, because I felt like whether he got
this job or not, or whether he decided to come and
offer it or not, He was someone I really wanted to
know and really wanted to meet because I had read so
much of the things he was doing, particularly as
they related to my field in educating disabled
students. So it was important for me to meet him. I
never was sorry that I rescheduled to do that
because it was exciting and he's a very exciting
person. But I remember thinking to myself after he
left from the interview, I wasn't sure what our
chances were that we would get him here, but even
though I've loved being at Texas A&M, I thought, my
goodness, if we get Dean Kargan, he's better than
we deserve. He's just so outstanding that we're
going to really have to work hard. That's what I
thought. I still, after working for him, think
that he is just absolutely a wonderful dean. He
gives us national leadership. But my perception
is that the faculty here are wonderful also. And so
maybe I'd feel like he's just as lucky as we are now.
My attitude is that. I can't imagine why you would
feel that you was better than you deserve. Why in
the world would you feel that? I don't know. I
remember thinking that. Perhaps because the
climate was so different. Now, you may not get this
from a lot of people, but to me, the climate was
extremely different. Okay. Though Dean Hubert
had a lot of good qualities. His leadership style
was so extremely different. It was what you would
expect at Texas A&M. It was autocratic. It was
authoritarian. It was all of those things. And as a
result, although we had some very good people
here, I believe that they weren't reaching their
potential because they were doing what they were
told to do. With a person like Corrigan coming,
everyone could do just about anything we had the
courage to dream, and he would support it. It got to
be a joke where people were saying, try to avoid
Corrigan in the elevator, because if you start up a
conversation, he'll say, well, I expect you to do
that, or, you know, go right ahead with it. Whereas
before, there had been, in my estimation, more of,
well, let's go through 14 committees before we
decide if that's an appropriate research.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. And so, to me, that was a dramatic
difference. And as a result, some people felt more
comfortable with Hubert. Some felt more
comfortable with Corrigan. And not everybody's
alike. But at least those who are the thinkers and
the doers and the self-initiators are really...
So that's
more the change? That's to me the major change
since I've been here. I think other things that
have changed that have affected us is more faculty
governance.
Faculty have had very little in the history of our
university to do and say with how things were
going. We teach and we serve and we work with
students and we conduct research, which of course
are all vital things of our profession. But as far
as the administration and governance, we haven't
had all that much say until lately. You were
talking about governance and being a part of
decision. Right. I think the faculty in the last
four years has gotten a lot more vocal and been
heard. And that's not only because of the College
of Education's stance in leadership, but also
because the university's change in leadership.
We had, at the same time, a chancellor and a
president come to this university to be a part of
the faculty and replace the decision-making.
That is also when we were able to establish the
Faculty Senate. It's helped a lot. I think it's
given a lot of courage. Now, there's also camps, of
course, those who choose to be involved and those
who rather the administration do it and say,
you're paid to make the decisions, you do it, and
leave me alone. That's right. I prefer to have some
say so in what goes on administratively.
OK, good. That wouldn't have happened in 1978 when
I was the first assistant. Now, tell me how you
feel, the next question, about the college
achieving its mission. And was there a change
since you were there in that interim period? Was
there more or less focus or emphasis on the
teaching or the research or the service?
Everyone, I think, will tell you at a major
university that we are told you must do an
outstanding job at teaching. That is a focus. And
you have to serve in committees, et cetera. And you
have to do research. You have to do all three of
these. The truth of the matter is, when we put up the
tenure and promotion,
Our research is looked at very heavily, and I'm in
the Department of Educational Psychology, and we
have some very strong researchers. And to be in
comparison with that group, you have to be
conducting research, and you cannot be doing
research that is deemed inappropriate or less...
Who decides whether your research is? Is it your
department head that decides what research to do?
No, I decide what research I will do. Whether it's
appropriate or acceptable. Right. The people
ahead of me, I'm an associate professor. My full
professor colleagues in my department are
currently, as we speak, even this year, looking at
my credentials. for promotion to full professor.
And so, well, it may be, it may not be. This one's a
real important one to me because this is what
everybody wants to become is a full professor. But
the one, I guess, the most crucial is going from
assistant to associate because that's where your
tenure comes at that point, too. So, and having
already achieved that, I can tell you that had I not
done a significant amount of research and outside
funded research, which I do a great deal of, I don't
think I would have looked on as favorably. And
that's my perception. It may not be true, but it is
my perception of how we are judged. I personally
feel that the most important thing I do is teach.
And it irritates me. to think that some top-notch
researchers can be lousy teachers and remain at
Texas A&M. I believe it's easier to be a bad teacher
and a good researcher and stay here than it would be
to be a wonderful teacher and a mediocre
researcher. That's my perception. That's
interesting. And because of the time constraints
and because you're doing so many things, all of you
as professors, do you feel a certain amount of
pressure when you when you don't have some ongoing
research at all times? I've never not had a funded
research project. Never. I've got six. I've got a
half a million dollars this year in funded
research. Almost half a million dollars. And I
have never had... A year that I've been a professor
that I have not had outside funding research. But
you're also always teaching and you're also
always doing that? This is the first year in nine
years that I am not teaching. I have always taught
and conducted research. But because of the
magnitude of the research grants I got this year,
and I have 20 people hired doing research for me
this year, I am only doing administration and
other work. Oh, absolutely. And so I'm guest
speaking all the time. I go to people, do you need
somebody to go into your classes with? I know you
did that in our classes somewhere very well. Well,
I have to do that because that's where you get the
gratification is from your students. And I
suppose I'm just not cut out to be an
administrator. I like to touch people more often.
Okay. Well, that's probably part of the next
question then. How has this tremendous growth
affected your work with students? It's been
awful. I cannot tell you. From 1978 to 1986, the
largest class I had at A&M was 36 students. Last
semester, in the spring of 86, I had a class of 183.
Gosh. 183? That's one class. That's right. One
class. Special Education 110, Introduction to
Special Education. Let me tell you, I'll do
anything to keep on teaching that class again. I
didn't know the students. People will come up to me
on campus now and say, oh, Dr. Parrish, I had you
last spring. There's no way you know them. And I
have had, I mean, I know my students, and I know
where they're from, and I don't want to do that
every year. But somebody's doing it this
semester. With that many students? Oh, yeah. No,
240 in that class this semester. It's worse
because we had such a big increase. Mercy. That is.
So definitely it has affected the ability to work
with students more on an individual basis. In
those kind of classes. In the counseling type.
Okay. In the overall survey classes. This is a 110.
It's a freshman, sophomore level class. And I hate
that. Of course, that's going on in chemistry, you
know, everywhere. But for the first five years I
was here, I only taught graduate classes, and I
think my biggest one of those was 18th. I love that.
But undergraduates, I think that we need to keep
our undergraduate classes small. Those kids
really need to know professors. That's where
you're setting foundations. That's right. Okay.
That leads me then to a little bit about how
departments and colleges and so forth
collaborate maybe with each other to alleviate
maybe some of these problems or to enhance or to
whatever. What do you see? there in the
collaborative efforts? I think we're doing
better than we've done in the past, although we're
still not as good as we should be. My personal
opinion is, if I had some vision for the future, is
that we don't have departments at all. We'd have a
college of education, and we would have faculty
who were interdisciplinary in nature, But you
would have someone, for example, in educational
administration who could teach without going
into its site what an administrator needs to know
for disabled students in their mainstream
schools. And I just think that we would have a more
effective program if we didn't realize
department heads necessarily have to fight for
resources for their departments. And we have a lot
of that. All these people get along with each
other, and they meet with policy committee
meetings once a month, I think, within Corrigan,
and I think they get along. But then they, that's
what they have to do. I mean, that's the nature of
their job. So there's some of this turf
protection, too. You want to have, you know, your
area protected, or is that... Oh, absolutely,
absolutely. And... I don't know. Maybe I'm also
too idealistic to really be an effective
administrator, but it seems to me that if we're all
doing something very well, then we could
eliminate any excess that we might have, and I
don't know that we did, and work together in our
students would really benefit. I don't believe
that we need to be governed by our present order. Do
you think that would ever happen? Dean Corrigan
did it at a university before he came here. He had
centers of inquiry, as I understand it. I may be
misrepresenting him, but I had read about what he
did, and I was looking for that kind of thing to
happen at A&M in the first three years he'd given
up. Did he try? I mean, I know he set up some inquiry
groups. He set up inquiry groups, and I thought,
aha, this is the first step, because he sent out
wanting to know all of our interests. And then we
got together in centers of inquiry, inquiry
groups, and those have been fun, but they haven't
led to the demise of departments. Well, and there
was also, I understand, some resistance on some
departments' part of not even to the point I have
heard of punishing the faculty members who got too
involved in the inquiry groups. Whereas in other
departments, everybody was on all of them, or
there was somebody on all sides. That's right. And
I got to be involved from the very beginning,
because I thought it was exciting and new. Well, we
got to meet different faculty. Believe this or
not, there were faculty in the College of
Education in different departments that really
don't know each other very well. I have heard that
also from several teachers, that because it has
grown so fast, now people don't know each other or
have the camaraderie that they enjoyed when it was
just a very small group. But we could. There are
ways to do it, even in big conglomerations. Very
good. And do you see that all of these things have
changed how other people see us as a college of
education on a state level or even beyond? You
know, through your exposure. That's very
interesting. I should go back to number five to
say, we talked about inside the college. Outside
the college, just recently, we're beginning to
work with the College of Science and the College of
Liberal Arts to work on degree plans that reflect
what the state is looking at, less teacher-ed kind
of courses, those kind of things. Those things
should always be there, because whether we like it
or not, in any major university, the College of
Education is looked on as the ugly stepsister. I
have been told to my face that you were the weak link
in this very strong chain, meaning the entire
College of Education. At A&M, you mean? Oh, yes.
You have been told? Yes, at A&M was where I was told
by a department head in the College of Liberal
Arts. It is amazing to me if people don't
understand it or if they just reject hearing it, if
they don't know that, because that's the
perception of the College of Education. Maybe not
so much here as all over the country, but it
certainly is. It's just a national phenomenon.
Now, with Dean Corrigan's coming and with his high
visibility and his articulate nature and all of
those types of things, we have been able to turn the
corner at A&M. I believe most of our higher ed
administrators believe we're the best college. I
believe that. I think they'll shakily believe
that. But I don't know if our colleagues in liberal
arts and science and those people believe that.
You still have that respect for that, right?
That's interesting. You have to understand, I'm
married to the Associate Dean of Liberal Arts, so I
party a lot with people in the foreign languages
and literature. And there's this air, maybe,
of... There is. There definitely is that
superiority here, but it's really hysterical
because we tend to be flourishing, and the College
of Education gets resources, and somebody
flourishes. Well, and isn't this college and the
College of Liberal Arts the two fastest growing? I
believe that's what we heard at the last
development council. And business. And
business, okay. So that's an interesting thing.
And, of course, well, to skip around a little bit,
What do you think then now with all these
perspective changes and these things in the
legislature and all the interpretation of these
new bills, how do you think that's going to affect?
It's going to help us. Okay. Now a lot of people will
say, oh my gosh, look, it's changing what we've
done in the last 195 years. To me, it's wonderful.
It's going to raise the esteem of teachers. going
to raise their position in the schools. They're
going to, in my estimation, be rewarded
financially if they come out believing they are
better. Now, whether they're better or not, I'm
not saying. But the perception of them being
better by not graduating, say, with 90 hours of
education, which they don't, but everybody
believes they do. That's true. then they're going
to come out. It's all perception. But that's okay.
If it is perception, it is a good thing for them. The
thing of it is, the kids that come here to A&M are
good students. And people will say to me, ah, you
know, A&M, you must have a wonderful college
education. Your students don't fail the exit
test. Okay, you've got 98% passing the exit test.
My answer to them is yes, I think we are good at A&M.
But I'm telling you that the kids who come to A&M
could probably pass the exit test the day they
arrive. We get the cream of the crop to come to A&M.
So I can't take all the responsibility and the
credit for making these wonderful teachers.
They're wonderful students when they come to us.
Okay, that's something that I keep hearing now
from people about because we have had to raise the
standards and because of the enrollment cap and
because all of these other things that are
happening. I'm hearing, you know, are you leaving
out, you know, your average students? And are the
people that are coming that are so fantastic, that
are merit scholars, that are, you know, the cream
of the crop, how many of those want to go into
teaching? Very few. very few, but
you can't blame them. If I were going back to school
today with the opportunities different than they
were 25 years ago, I probably wouldn't major in
education, but we've got to make education as as
competitive. So what's going to do it? Well,
what's going to do it is raising our self-esteem.
And if that means getting a degree in liberal arts
with a teaching certificate, I don't really care
how we do it. Just so we make these students
competent professionals who believe in
themselves. And so I think all of these things, I'm
willing to try them because we're not succeeding
for our teachers now. So we've got to change. And
the universities better not send them away. We
better leave the fight. Why am I here? I'm here
because I was a teacher for 10 years in the public
schools. And I couldn't make decisions. I
couldn't make changes. And I didn't make enough
money. Right? Okay. So everybody didn't have the
opportunity. I had to go back and get a doctorate.
We've got to make it work. That's true. That's a
totally different perception. And I'm glad to
hear it because Well, I'm strange. I told you I am.
That's great. At least it's different. Well,
you've been here, I guess, the least time of
anybody that I have talked to, and I think that
probably gives you that different perspective
that you haven't been here for 30 years or 20 years.
Well, I hope when I have been here for 30 years that I
am willing to say, let's do something different.
Let's try it. Let's be innovative. If it doesn't
work, let's say, well, we made a mistake, but we're
not going to. kill anybody going through here in
the process. There's degrees of quality.
Absolutely. Okay, so now, with or without your
little crystal ball, can you tell me a little bit
about, and you have already in passing talked
about maybe some of your visions for the future,
one being no departments, which would be
certainly an innovative program. What other
things do you think the College of Education might
be looking at in the 21st century? Well, the
College of Education, you haven't really asked
any negative questions here, but I want to tell you
something. Okay. I looked at this and I thought,
how am I going to get in somewhere? Because I can
talk about wonderful stuff out my ears at A&M. But
there are some lovingly critical things I need to
say, too. And I say that adjective because I'm not
angry at A&M. I am delighted to be able to work here.
And sometimes I'm amazed I'm paid to do something I
love to do in a place I love to do it. But A&M has got
to... have some role models for all of the women who
are coming through this school. We have one
department head who is a woman in the entire
university in sociology. We used to have a woman in
modern languages, but she's no longer there. And
we have had a woman in medicine, Joyce Davis. I'm
not really sure about her, if she's still there or
not. So there may be two. But for sure, I know
there's one, Mary's I. Farrell in sociology. Now,
we have had a woman in the College of Liberal Arts as
an assistant dean. But I'm telling you, if the
College of Education does not show that there can
be women in leadership positions, then we're
doing a disservice to not only the women, but the
men of this university. And you've already heard
me say that I don't like administration, so I'm not
trying to make a role for myself here. I am trying to
make a role for talented women here that are
generally known as the tremendous teachers at
Texas A&M, the wonderful counselors for the
students, the great service providers. but not
the decision makers. And if we don't change that,
then we're going to be far behind. Where do those
changes, I mean, let's talk about decision making
and the hierarchy and how all of those things can
come about, because I'm not familiar. Being from
the outside, looking in, I am not able to perceive
the things. Think about all the development
council meetings that you have attended. how many
women do you see getting up to say, let me tell you
about my department, let me tell you about... They
win teaching awards because they deserve them,
but they are not the people who are in those
decision-making roles. I really thought Dean
Cardin would change that, that he has now. Is he
getting any pressure to change that? Or has he
gotten... The entire university is getting some
pressure to look at how women are treated. This
year, we were looked at... on a case-by-case basis
to make sure that we were getting salary
increases. Because we've done a study, I say we,
I'm on the committee for the status of women at this
university, and I wrote the first report to the
president two years ago on what the status of women
is here. And we know that across the board we make
90% of our male colleagues, which is excellent,
because nationwide we're making 54 to 60%. Of
what, the males? Mm-hmm. And so A&M is really good
at paying us 90% of what our male colleagues do. But
I can say that facetiously because, you know, why
don't we get the same amount? So this year, case by
case, the deans looked at all women and all
minority faculty members, and there was
allocated money to make sure that we got
appropriate raises so that we were not kept. Now,
again, I work for this, but I am not one of the people
who have been mistreated. I couldn't ever
complain about my salary increases, ever. But
looking at case by case, we see that some women can
across the university. Even with a salary
increase, what you're saying is that there's
still a need to give more roles, for example, like
department heads? Absolutely. College of
Education desperately needs department heads
and associate and assistant deans. If we can't do
it, Nobody else in this whole university can.
Liberal arts can. They have. The one department
head and the former associate dean. Do you have
some of those reports, maybe copies of some of the
reports on the women? Because that might be
something that I could use as a document. Because
I'll be looking not only at the College of
Education, but in relationship to its external
environment, the university, and even beyond the
university. So if you have something... I can get
some of that sent to you. I can get them from the
faculty senate office. Okay. Any kind of
documents that would sort of help me to put this in
the right perspective. You'll have to
understand, though, for your report, that the
documents will deal on women's faculty in the
university, not in the college of ed. That's fine.
That's fine. Just, again, because I'm not going to
be just looking at the college of ed. I'll be
putting it in the context of what was happening in
the university as well. Because that obviously
has influence on what, you know, what happens in
the college. Absolutely. Okay, good. Now, can we
talk just for a couple of minutes about some of the
highlights maybe? Hold it just a second. Let me
change the...